Grammar & Punctuation


This section covers essential and fundamental topics such as sentence structure, correct word usage, punctuation marks, and common grammatical pitfalls. Adherence to these points will ensure consistency and uniformity are maintained, coupled with clarity in writing, ultimately helping content writers create polished and effective communication.


English type
American English: Use American spellings, including distinctions such as “center”, “organize”, “favorite” and “color.” 
Vocabulary: Ensure American vocabulary preferences are used, including terms specific to American institutions or culture, i.e.,”elevator” instead of “lift”, “gasoline” instead of “petrol.”
Grammar: Adhere to American grammar rules, including preposition use, verb agreement, and sentence structure. For example, use “I have” instead of “I have got.”
Common Expressions: Where appropriate incorporate familiar American expressions and idioms, i.e., “Back to square one”, “Cut to the chase.” 

Capitalization
Headines: Use APA title case only for H1s (Title), not subheaders. Capitalize each word besides articles, (a, an, the), coordinating conjunctions (and, but, or), or prepositions unless they are the first or last word. (i.e., “The Art of Writing: A Guide to Style” Hence, generally this applies to articles, conjunctions, and prepositions of four letters or fewer, as they should be in lowercase.
Subheaders (H2,H3, H4, bullet ed list headers, first words in bullet lists): use sentence case.
Capitalize Titles & Ranks: These should be capitalized when the titles/ranks directly precede a person's name (i.e., Doctor Johnson) but not when used generically (i.e., the doctor).
Capitalize Brand Names: All brand names, and if applicable any trademarks. i.e., Samsung, Mercedes.
Capitalize Government bodies: The names of government bodies, departments, agencies, and specific legislative acts: i.e., the Securities & Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve, the Anti-Money Laundering Act.
Capitalize Academic Subjects & Courses: i.e., Mathematics, English Literature.
Capitalize Events & Documents: i.e., Blockchain Hackathon, Investment Memorandum.
Capitalize Geographic Regions: i.e., Europe, Asia, Antarctica.
Note: “United States" should be spelled out when used as a noun or location (APA style). United States can be abbreviated as "U.S." when it is used as an adjective.

Adherence to the above guidelines ensures consistency and clarity in capitalization throughout all written content, therefore contributing to a professional finished product.

Abbreviations and acronyms

Initial Usage: To provide immediate clarity, spell out the phrase or full term the first time it appears in the document, followed by the acronym or abbreviation in parentheses: i.e., European Central Bank (ECB).
Subsequent Usage: Once an acronym or abbreviation has been introduced into the relevant document, it can then be used on its own in all subsequent references: i.e., The ECB is predicted to raise rates.
Consistent usage: Ensure consistency by utilizing either abbreviations or full terms throughout the document. i.e., Use either “European Union” or “EU” consistently not interchangeably.
Note: Please use your discretion with this rule. For example, you should mention the full term and acronym at first mention “Layer 2 (L2)” and then use the acronym. However, for readability and/or SEO reasons, you may want to alternate between the two. After first mention, use either the full term or the acronym (not both). 
Plurals: Use plurals of acronyms and abbreviations by adding ‘s’ without an apostrophe: i.e., FAQs (frequently asked questions), ETFs (exchange-traded funds).
Possessives: Form possessives of acronyms and abbreviations by adding an apostrophe and ‘s’. i.e., the CEO’s strategy, the ESA’s mission.
Periods (Full Stops) in Acronyms: Do not use a period after each letter in an acronym, (unless it is commonly used by the organization in question) i.e., NASA and not N.A.S.A.
Redundancy: Avoid redundancy when an abbreviation or acronym is used alongside its full form. i.e., ATM machine (redundant since ATM stands for Automated Teller Machine).
Indefinite Article Usage: Regarding acronyms and abbreviations ensure the correct usage of indefinite articles is used. i.e., an FBI agent, not a FBI agent.
Consistency: Ensure consistency is maintained regarding the usage of acronyms and abbreviations throughout the document.

Numbers, dates, and special characters
Words vs. Numerals: Spell out numbers nine and below and use numerals for numbers 10. However at the beginning of a sentence always spell out the numbers.
High values / long numbers:
In text: For values larger than 6 digits, please use abbreviations: “mil” for million, “bil” for billion, and “tril” for trillion. If it’s important to show the entire figure, use commas for thousands and millions (i.e., 3,542,000). 
In tables use the shorter form “M” for million , “B” for billion, and “T” for trillion. 
Use a period/full stop for decimal points (i.e., 3.5 mil). 
Date Format:
In text: Always write out the month in a date. Use commas to separate the day and year (i.e., June 19, 2023). 
In tables: Use the following format: Day.Month.Year. ( i.e. 19.6.23.)
Periods & Commas: Always use commas in numbers of 4 or more digits (i.e., 2,000). 
Symbols and Special Characters: Use mathematical symbols according to standard conventions. Use the relevant currency symbols (i.e., € for Euros, $ for U.S. Dollars).
Ranges and Dashes: Use an em dash (—) to separate additional information or to mark a break in a sentence. Use an en dash (–) for ranges (i.e., pages 2–5).
For USD-denominated ranges, please use two “$” symbols. “$3–$12” (not “$3–12”)
Have a space on each side of an em dash.
No spaces when using an en dash for ranges.
Hyphens: Please use hyphens (-) in all other instances (modifiers, prefixes, compound words, etc), not en or em dashes.
“Blockchain-based protocol” not “blockchain — based protocol” 
Degree and Percentage Symbols: Use the degree symbol (°) for temperature and angles (i.e., 30°C, 90°). Use the percentage symbol (%) when expressing percentages (i.e., 25%).
Units of Measurement: Abbreviate common units of measurement (i.e., kg for kilograms). In addition, ensure consistency of measurement units within the document.
Special Characters: Include trademark (™), registered (®), and copyright (©) symbols appropriately. Maintain correct formatting and placement of special characters.

Quotes and citations

Electronic Sources: When referencing online sources, link to the relevant source once in the document, preferably the first time the source is quoted. If possible, link the source name as anchor text. 
Data: always mention the source when presenting third-party data and link to it. Alternatively you can link the data itself to the source.
Secondary Sources: Reference secondary sources with caution. Whenever feasible, identify and link to the original work. For example, if you pull info from a blog post that provides data from an academic paper etc., link to the academic paper. 
Quotations: Use double quotation marks for short quotations. 
In direct quotes, include the full name of the person you’re quoting. If relevant, add the title (i.e., Alireza Ghods, founder of Natix). 
When quoting from a text they published or any other source, mention the source, if relevant.
Paraphrasing and Summarizing: When paraphrasing or summarizing information from a source, ensure proper attribution. Even if the author's exact words are not used, acknowledge the source to prevent plagiarism.
Citation of academic texts: Include the author's last name, the publication and the publication year in in-text citations. For direct quotations, include the page number (i.e., Jones, 2021, p. 25). (Plagiarism is not allowed under any circumstances. Ensure proper attribution for ideas, quotes, and paraphrased content at all times.) 

Admonitions

Notes, Tips, and Caution Labels: 
Utilize the "NOTE" designation for crucial information that requires clear distinction from the surrounding text. Refrain from employing "NOTE" for information that is merely interesting but not essential for users to grasp or accomplish the relevant task. 
Use the "TIP" designation for containing valuable insights that aid users in efficiently utilizing a product or accomplishing a step or task. 
Employ the "CAUTION" label to alert users about conditions or procedures that pose related risks regarding the topic in hand. 


Charts and Tables
Consistent Usage Reminder: Please use the shorter form “M” for million , “B” for billion, and “T” for trillion in tables. This “M/B/T” should follow the last number with no space. 
In tables: Use the following format: Day.Month.Year. ( i.e. 19.6.23.)


“In tables use the shorter form “M” for million , “B” for billion, and “T” for trillion. 
Use a period/full stop for decimal points (i.e., 3.5 mil).”


Special, industry-specific vocabulary



